
|  |                           CURRICULAM VITAE                           | |
|  |ABA AZIZ                                                              | |
|  |MAKKAH, Saudi Arabia                                                  | |
|  |                                                                      | |
|  |IQAMA STATUS: TRANSFERABLE                                            | |
|  |                                                                      | |
|  |Email: abaaziz785@gmail.com                                           | |
|  |                                                                      | |
|  |Mobile: +966-581 226 638                                              | |



              Post Applied: Project Engineer (Electrical Engineer) /
Maintenance Engineer

OBJECTIVE

Knowledge growth a professional position in a friendly working atmosphere
where builds my career and growth of the organization.


SUMMARY


    . 7 years experience in Industrial & Construction Engineering as a
      Project Engineer/Automation engineer.

    . Having good exposure on MS-Office, Power point presentation  &   Excel
      Sheet


    . Very good Knowledge on Computer literate & English verbal and written

    . Co-ordination with consultants / Main contractor /subcontractors
      regarding practical issues occurring during execution for clearances
      at site.

    . Review of shop drawing, coordination drawing, As-built, and single
      line diagram

    . Good exposure of electrical hardwares / Electrical goods / Electrical
      equipments and process instrumentation.

    . Electrical Switch Gears (Switches, Fuses, Ciruit breaker, MCB, MCCB,
      Relay, Contactor, Mechanical Timer, Over load relays, Smart relays)

    . Process Instrumentation (RTD, thermocouple, transmitter, thermostat,
      transducer, Proximity Sensors)

    . Electrical wiring design of Motor Control Circuits  &  power  circuits
      Starters (DOL starter, Remote DOL starter, Star delta starter, Reverse
      DOL Starter), Interlocking Circuit

    . Callibration of Tempreture Sensors Like RTD, Thermocuple, Transmitter,
      Transducer, PLC
    . VFD Principle of operation and applications, Hand on hard Wiring,
      Operation and program
            Parameters by keypad mode, remote mode (start stop,
potentiometer), Controlling
            Through PLC, Communication with PLC and SCADA

    . Ladder Logic devoloper for PLC (Siemens, Allen bradley, Mitsubishi)  /
      DCS System


    . Design and development of SCADA System with Device & Data Base
      Connectivity

    . Design and development of HMI (Human Machine Interface) Communication,



    . Coordination and give instructions to site supervisors /foreman for
      all execution of site works (1st fixture, 2nd fixture & 3rd fixture)
      ensure that all site works done are as per Schedule in according to
      all applicable quality standards.

    . Preventing  and  condition  based  maintenance  planning,  scheduling,
      implemainting of jobs  and Lock out Tag out Procedure

    . Basic knowledge on AutoCAD, Matlab and Kapserver

EDUCATION                                                     QUALIFICATION:




Bachelor of Technology Engineering  (B.tech)  with  First  Class  from  Biju
Patnaik University and Technology, Orissa


PROFESSIONAL SKILLS

Software                     : Basic knowledge in MATLAB, Microsoft  Office,
auto CAD.

Operating Systems     : Windows XP/VISTA/7, Linux Red Hat Enterprises


CORPORATE TRAINING

    . Industrial Automation Engineering
    . Vocational training in BSNL (BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM  LIMITED,  Govt.  Of
      India)


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE




       M/s Saudi Binladin Group (BTC)                              May  2014
      to till date

       Project Engineer




Working as a Project Engineer of the custodian of the two holy mosques King
Abdullah bin
Abdul Aziz project SHAMIYA new Abdullah Expansion project

Project Handling: SHAMIYA THIRD EXPANSION, MAKKAH

Consultant         : DARAL.HANDASAH

 Place                : Holy Mosque (Haram)

 Role                  : Project Engineer




Job Responsibilities:


 Project Co-ordination with client  and  sub-contractors,  Site  supervision
and Inspection of Site


 . Contact of supplier regarding quotations of Materials.
 . Familiar with shop drawings and as built Drawing.
 . Follow-up the Shop Drawing and consultant Instruction.
 . Installation of Conduits, PVC, EMT, Cable Trays, raceways and cable
   pulling

 . Preparation, take of material as per required drawing.
 . Dealing with Sub- Contractor & check their work as per drawing.


 . Attend the weakly Site Meeting to update site work with actual plan.
 . Responsible for Quality Assurance for execute the work.
 . Timely planning the material and man power to site completion.

   Managing large group of workers and sub-contractors

 . Day to day reporting to P.M
 . Estimate Bill of Quantities (BOQ)










PROFESSIONAL                                                         HISTORY



   1) M/S Sofcon Group Ltd. (Rockwell Automation)            January 2012 to
      March 2014

      Project Engineer


As an Automation Engineer   my  role  is  to  Design,  develop,   test,   or
supervise  the   manufactured    installation   of   electrical   equipment,
Instruments, PLC, SCADA, Drives,  Electronics  components,  or  systems  for
commercial, industrial provides  control  logic,  Ladder  Logic,  HMI  logic
development, program commissioning, Wiring & Troubleshooting of  the  system
with site  acceptance  test  (SAT).  Direct  and  coordinate  manufacturing,
construction,  installation,  maintenance,   support,   documentation,   and
testing activities to ensure  Compliance  with  Specifications,  codes,  and
customer requirements.

            PROJECT HANDLED:  STAR PLANT
            Consultant:               HOLTECH
            Client:                      CMCL GROUP
            Place:                       SONAPUR,  GUWAHATI,  ASSAM  (Client
Location)
             Environment:             Electrical  Control   Panel,   COMPACT
LOGIX1756-L73, SMART RELAY
            Role:                         Project Engineer

        Responsibility:

    . Manage all Electrical, Instrumentation & Control System Hardware and
      software record and Training of operator and technician in IPC


    . Develop Ladder Logic (LAD) & Network establishment  on  Ethernet  with
      smart relay network Logic development for each relay and  taking  each
      relay on  network.  Communication  through  ETAP  between  Ethernet  &
      optical fibre

    .  Ensure  that  all  material  arriving   at   site   meets   company's
      specifications and quantities as per packing list.

    .  Operate  computer-assisted  engineering  and  design   software   and
      equipment to perform engineering tasks.

    . Going through the scope of work  and  investigating  on  site  as  per
      drawing.




    . Provide engineering support to construction and procurement depts.




    . Responsible for the  progress  of  the  project  should  be  completed
      successfully.




    .  Provide  technical  specification  for  project  work  outside   main
      contractor's scope of work.




    . Involve in the meeting with comments regarding the projects/works.





   2) M/S NEELKANTHA ELECTROMECH (P) LTD                May 2010 to December
      2011

       Site Engineer




    . As a Site Engineer my role was  to  supervise  the  system  with  site
      acceptance test (SAT) and designing, developing, installing,  managing
      and/or  maintaining  electrical  equipment  Testing,  maintaining  and
      modifying existing systems analyzing data and presenting  findings  in
      Written  reports  managing  operations  working  collaboratively  with
      design Engineers, operation Engineers project management.

    . Troubleshooting and problem-solving

    . Understanding and ensuring  compliance  with  the  health  and  safety
      regulations & quality

    . Providing advice and consultancy support,  Writing  computer  software
      and test procedures, Posses excellent command over verbal and  written
      communications.

    .   Highly   skilled   in   implementing,   designing   and   supporting
      micrporocessor based Smart Devices




   3)                  S.                  K.                    Electronics
          August 2001 to December 2003

      Supervisor

            Job Profile:

    . Supervise all Installation of work, monitor the manpower and
      reporting.

      TECHNICAL SKILLS




    . Motors Starters Electrical Circuit Design (Control  Circuits  /  Power
      Circuits):

      Induction Motors, Star  Delta  Starters,  DOL  Starters,  Reverse  DOL
      starters, Remote DOL Starter,  Interlocking  circuits,  Panel  Wiring,
      Relays, Contactors, Thermal overload relays

    . Process Instrumentation:  RTDs,  Thermostat,  Thermocouples,  Level  &
      Proximity Sensors,
         NPN sensor, PNP sensor, Ultrasonic sensor, Transmitter, flow meter,
   Float sensor Callibration
          of  Tempreture  Sensors  Like   RTD,   Thermocuple,   Transmitter,
   Transducer, PLC
    . PLCs / DCS systems:
    V  Allen  Bradley:   Micrologix1000,   Micrologix1100,   Micrologix1200,
      Micrologix1400, Micrologix1500,  Compact  Logix,  Control  Logix,  SLC
      05/03, Wiring & Troubleshooting

    V Siemens-AG:

                       Step7-200: CPU-221,  CPU-222,  CPU-224,  CPU-224-XP,
           CPU-226

                        Step7-300:  CPU  313C-2DP,  CPU  314-DP,  Wiring  &
           Troubleshooting

    V  MITSUBISHI:   MELSEC-FX  Series  (FX0N,   FX1N,   FX2N),   Wiring   &
      Troubleshooting

    . Programming Language (PLC) : Ladder Logic Development


    . Programming Software (PLC & HMI)  :
    V Allen Bradley :  RSlogix500, RSlogix5000, Panel Buider32, RSlinx

    V Siemens-AG  :  Microwin, Sematic Manager, TIA

    V Mitsubishi      :  GX-Developer

    . SCADA Software:  Wonderware  (Intouch),  RS  View  32,  Wincc  sematic
      Applications & Development.
    .  HMI  :  Creating  Applications,  Downloading  /  Uploading  Programs,
      Security in HMI, and PLC,
                HMI and SCADA communication
    . Networking: Net AIC, RS232, RS485, RS422, PROFIBUS, Ethernet,  MODBUS,
      CONTROLNET
    . Drive: VFD Principle of  operation  and  applications,  Hand  on  hard
      Wiring, Operation and program Parameters by keypad mode,  remote  mode
      (start stop, potentiometer), Controlling Through  PLC,   Communication
      with PLC and SCADA
    . Software Skill        : Basic knowledge in MATLAB, MS-Office, expected
      multiple software
    . Language Skill       : Basic Knowledge in C, HTML
    . Operating Sytem   : Linux Red Hat Enterprises, Windows XP/VISTA/7
    . Very good Knowledge on Computer literate & English verbal and written


      ACADEMIC PROJECT DETAILS


      Project title:     Automated Car  Parking  System,  Bottle  filling
      process, Batch mixing process




    ACHIEVEMENTS AND EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES




    . National Cadet Corps of 4-Bihar  Battalion  NCC  &  Awarded  Annual
      Camp Certificate.

    . College Runner-up in Chess and Carom.




    PERSONAL DETAILS

                Nationality:   Indian                              Date   of
   Birth:  22 February 1987
               Passport:     J2431672                        Marital Status:
    Single
               Passport  issued:  19/07/2011             Passport  Validity:
   18/07/2021
               Languages Known:  English, Hindi  &  Urdu  (Read,  Write  and
   Speak), Arabic (Read, Write)
               IQAMA STATUS: TRANSFERABLE



            Declaration:


           I hereby declare that all the above information is correct to
the best of my knowledge and


           belief.

           Place: MAKKAH

                                                                       Date:
                                           (ABA AZIZ)              [pic]
